# GenGit Scan

*Tool for analysis and visualization of git logs*

## Presentation

GenGit Scan a tool for analyzing contributions from the members of a team working a a same given project hosted on a git repository. Its goal is to assist teachers for individual grading of students working as a team.

This tool can:

- compute a couple of relevant indicators such as:
  - number of lines or characters added/deleted/changed
  - number of commits
  - number of merge commits
- analyze the variations of these indicators in time: for instance sum then in a week, compute a daily average or an average in a sliding window, ...
- visualize the indicators as charts (histograms, pie charts, etc.) embedded in a generated web page.

## Already existing similar tools

- [gitstats](https://pypi.org/project/gitstats/) 

## Technical means

- The charts are generated by a third party library (maybe a Java library generating pictures, or a javascript library which dynamically interprets the data).
- The data to analyze are be obtained using calls to the git CLI and for some commands, by using the dedicated gitlab API.

# Architecture

GenGit Scan contains the following modules:

- data types for storing raw data directly extracted from git history, with relevant parsers
- a generator of numerical series (for the indicators mentioned above)
- a generator of web pages
- a command line program that calls the other modules using the provided command line parameters
- a graphical user interface when running the program without arguments, letting the user indicate the path of the project he wants to examine and also the data he wants to be shown up.
- a shared module for configuration object definitions

## Usage

### Building the project

1. clone the repository
    ```
    git clone git@gaufre.informatique.univ-paris-diderot.fr:badaoui/visulog.git
    ```
   or
    ```
    git clone https://gaufre.informatique.univ-paris-diderot.fr/badaoui/visulog.git
    ```
2. Enter the project folder
    ```
    cd visulog
    ```
3. Only if you are on a SCRIPT computer (in one of the TP rooms):
    ```
    source SCRIPT/envsetup
    ```
    This will setup the GRADLE_OPTS environment variable so that gradle uses the SCRIPT proxy for downloading its dependencies. It will also use a custom trust store (the one installed in the system is apparently broken... ).
4. run gradle wrapper (it will download all dependencies, including gradle itself)
    ```
    ./gradlew build
    ```
### Running the software

The easiest way to run the project is by using the GUI. You'll only have to run this command :
```
./gradlew run
```
The program will then proceed to show a graphical interface, asking for the path of the project you want to examine, and then the plugins you want to use.

The program can also be executed by giving the arguments without using the GUI, to do so you need to pass them behind `--args`:
```
./gradlew run --args='here are my args'
```

For instance

```
./gradlew run --args='. --addPlugin=countCommits'
```

Will count the commits of each author in the current branch of the git repository present in the current folder (".").
